---
aliases:
  - Группа симметрии кубика рубика
created: 2025-05-10 19:52
parent:
  - "[[Group examples MOC]]"
connected: []
tags:
---

$Rubik := \langle F, B, R, L, U, D \rangle,$

where each action is a $90^\circ$ clockwise turn of one of the six faces:
- $F$: front
- $B$: back
- $R$: right
- $L$: left
- $U$: upper
- $D$: bottom ("down")

$|Rubik| = 43,252,003,274,489,856,000$ actions of the Rubik's cube group.

> [!info] Theorem (Rokicki, Kociemba, Davidson, Dethrige, 2010)
Every configuration of the Rubik's cube group is at most 20 "moves" from the solved state. Moreover, there are configurations that are exactly 20 moves away.


Though the Rubik's cube group is generated by 6 actions, $Rubik := \langle F, B, R, L, U, D \rangle,$ most solution guides also use:
- $F', B', R', L', U', D'$ for $90^\circ$ counterclockwise turns, and
- $F2, B2, R2, L2, U2, D2$ for $180^\circ$ turns.

> [!info] Theorem (Rokicki, Kociemba, Davidson, Dethrige, 2010)
The [[Diameter in graph Diam(G)|diameter]] of the [[Cayley graph]] of the Rubik's cube group, with generating set
$Rubik = \langle F, B, R, L, U, D, F', B', R', L', U', D', F2, B2, R2, L2, U2, D2 \rangle$
is 20.


In 2014, Tomas Rokicki and Morley Davidson, with the Ohio Supercomputing Center, solved the Rubik's cube in the "quarter-turn metric".

> [!info] Theorem (Rokicki \& Davidson, 2014)
The diameter of the Cayley graph of the Rubik's cube group, with generating set
$Rubik = \langle F, B, R, L, U, D, F', B', R', L', U', D' \rangle$
is 26.

In the "half-turn metric," there are hundreds of millions of nodes a maximal distance (exactly 20) from the solved state.

In the "quarter-turn metric," we only know of three at a maximal distance (exactly 26).

It is conjectured that there are
- $\approx 36$ nodes at a distance of 25
- $\approx 150,000$ nodes at a distance of 24
- $\approx 24$ quadrillion ($2.4 \times 10^{16}$) nodes at a distance of 23.


